Consolidating requirements for the user account running the es service (#5109)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/deploy/self-managed/elasticsearch-service-user.md

# {{es}} service user requirements [elasticsearch-service-user]

{{es}} must run under an appropriate user account with specific permissions and consistent configuration across all nodes in your cluster. 
This page describes the requirements for the user account that runs the {{es}} service.

## Don't run as root

Elastic recommends that you avoid running commands as the `root` user. Instead, create a dedicated, unprivileged user account to run the service, such as `elasticsearch` for example.

> RPM and Debian packages create this user and group automatically during installation. For `.tar.gz` or `.zip` installations, create the user manually  before starting {{es}}.

Reviewer: Does it make sense to identify the user and group created by the package? For example...

```suggestion
RPM and Debian packages create an `elasticsearch` user and group automatically during installation. For `.tar.gz` or `.zip` installations, create the user manually  before starting {{es}}.
```

## Use consistent user and group IDs across nodes

Ensure that the `elasticsearch` user has the same *numeric* UID and GID on every node in your cluster.

This is especially important if you use NFS or another shared file system. Many NFS implementations match accounts by numeric UID and GID, not by name. 
If the `elasticsearch` account has different numeric IDs on different nodes, you might encounter permission errors when using shared file system snapshot repositories.

For more information, refer to [Troubleshooting a shared file system repository](/deploy-manage/tools/snapshot-and-restore/shared-file-system-repository.md#_troubleshooting_a_shared_file_system_repository).

> ## Required system permissions

Author: So perhaps something like **Kernel resource limits for the {{es}} process** is more specific and more correct?
